Interesting destinies rarely come from just reading the instruction.
“I can always regain lost territory. A single second, never.” -Napoleon Bonaparte
Knowledge alone won’t do the job any more than knowing the fundamentals of how to exercise will keep you physically healthy.
The enemy of art is the absence of limitations.
Total freedom is false freedom. True freedom has healthy boundaries.
Every organization begins as an advance force and ends up as an occupying force.
Success depends on our persistence and our willingness to keep refining and iterating even when we feel like moving on to something new.
The “birth” of our idea as a finished product is the end result of a very long process and, as with a newborn, rarely looks like what we imagined it would.
The three assassins of the creative process are dissonance, fear, and expectation escalation.
The most significant dissonance within organizations exists when the “why” of our work isn’t lining up with the “what” of our day-to-day activity.
One of the first signs of the decline of many great companies is when they fail to recognize the “why” behind their day-to-day activities.
1+1 = [[(9×3)/3]/3] - Don't make stuff more complex than they need to be!
New project: Why? What is the goal and vision?
“Making the simple complicated is commonplace; making the complicated simple, awesomely simple, that’s creativity.” —Charles Mingus
Are there unnecessarily complex systems in your life and work right now?
Get comfortable with eliminating things in your life that are getting in the way of clarity and focus.
Project strategy boils down to the five W’s: Why? Who? What? When? Where? The creative strategy lies in how we plan to accomplish these objectives.
Think of a problem you’re currently working on, or one on which you are currently stuck creatively. Can you effectively and concretely answer the five W’s: Why? Who? What? When? Where?
The more comprehensively we define our objectives, the more likely we are to experience creative insight. We are giving our minds a set of constraints to work within.
Take a minute to look at your organization’s current priorities. Can you explain why these priorities are currently the most important, or is there a lack of alignment between the why and the how of the work you’re doing?
Desire for comfort is the single biggest factor for creatives to shrink back from opportunity and the biggest block to creative growth.
Focus on great results rather than on process.
Separate what must be done well now, and what can be improved later.
Be quick to admit mistakes.
Use the 5-Whys method to get to the root cause of a problem
Benjamin Franklin's 1. virtue: TEMPERANCE - Eat not to dullness, drink not to elevation
Benjamin Franklin's 2. virtue: SILENCE - Speak not but what may benefit others or yourself. Avoid trifling conversation.
Benjamin Franklin's 3. virtue: ORDER - Let all your things have their places. Let each part of your business have its time.
Benjamin Franklin's 4. virtue: RESOLUTION - resolve to perform what you ought; perform without fail what you resolve.
Benjamin Franklin's 5. virtue: FRUGALITY - Make no expense but to do good to others or yourself; i.e. waste nothing.
Benjamin Franklin's 6. virtue: INDUSTRY - Lose no time; be always employ'd in something useful; cut of all unnecessary actions.
Benjamin Franklin's 7. virtue: SINCERITY - Use no hurtful deceit; think innocently and justly, and, if you speak, speak accordingly.
Benjamin Franklin's 8. virtue: JUSTICE - Wrong none by doing injuries, or omitting the benefits that are your duty.
Benjamin Franklin's 9. virtue: MODERATION - Avoid extreams; forbear resenting injuries so much as you think they deserve.
Benjamin Franklin's 10. virtue: CELANLINESS - Tolearate no uncleanlinesss in body, cloaths, or habitation.
Benjamin Franklin's 11. virtue: TRANQUILITY - Be not distrubed at trifles or at accidents common or unavoidable.
Benjamin Franklin's 12. virtue: CHASTITY - Rarely use venery but for health or offspring, never to dulness, weakness or the injury of your own or another's peace or reputation.
Benjamin Franklin's 13. virtue: HUMILITY - Imitate Jesus and Socrates.
The fledgling problem solver invariably rushes in with solutions before taking time to define the problem being solved. Even experienced solvers, when subjected to social pressure, yield to this demand for haste. When they do, many solutions are found, but not necessarily to the problem at hand. –Are your lights on?
Without some common understanding of the problem, a solution will almost invariably be to the wrong problem. Usually, it will be the problem of the person who talks loudest, or most effectively. Or who has the biggest bank account. –Are your lights on?
The Solver should, early in the game, try to answer the question; WHO HAS A PROBLEM? and then, for each unique answering party, to ask WHAT IS THE ESSENCE OF YOUR PROBLEM? –Are your lights on?
A problem is a difference between things as desired and things as perceived. –Are your lights on?
Don't bother trying to solve problems for people who don't have a sense of humour. –Are your lights on?
Don't take their solution method for a problem definition. –Are your lights on?
If you solve their problem too readily, they'll never believe you've solved their real problem. –Are your lights on?
Moral issues tend to melt in the head of a juicy problem to solve. –Are your lights on?
You can never be sure you have a correct (problem) definition, even after the problem is solved. –Are your lights on?
Don't leap to conclutions, but don't ignore your first impression. –Are your lights on?
The really important thing in dealing with problems is to know that the question is never answered, but that it doesn't matter, as long as you keep asking. –Are your lights on?
If you can't think of at least 3 things that might be wrong with your understanding of the problem, you don't understand the problem. –Are your lights on?
Usually, by the time the flaw in the design becomes painfully obvious, the designer is long gone and far away. –Are your lights on?
Designers, like landlords, seldom if ever experience the consequences of their actions. In consequence, designers continually produce misfits. –Are your lights on?
A misfit is a solution that produces a mismatch with the human beings who have to live with the solution. –Are your lights on?
Test your (problem) definition on a foreigner, someone blind, or a child, or make yourself foreign, blind or childlike. –Are your lights on?
Each new point of view will produce a new misfit. –Are your lights on?
How could we change the problem definition to make the solution different? –Are your lights on?
No matter how sincere people are, mere quantity of effort is not sufficient. You won't ever be sure that everyone present has the same understanding of the same words. We need a social process that tends to get the words off the paper and into their heads. –Are your lights on?
One you have a problem statement in words, play with the words until the statement is in everyones head. ... Word games are usually cheaper than unwanted solutions. –Are your lights on?
Don't solve other peoples problems when they can solve them perfectly well themselves. –Are your lights on?
If it's their problem, make it their problem. –Are your lights on?
If a person is in a position to do something about a problem, but doesn't have the problem, then do something so he does. –Are your lights on?
"MY problem" is not at all the opposite of "OUR problem." Like that approach, it reminds us of possibilities we might otherwise overlook in our haste to establish blame in some other quarter. –Are your lights on?
If people really have their lights on, a little reminder may be more effective than your complicated solution. –Are your lights on?
The source of the problem is most often within you. –Are your lights on?
Whenever we find a vast circulation of bureaucratic activity, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing, we may be facing a problem that comes from nowhere. Or, more precisely, that comes from the problem itself. –Are your lights on?
Who sent this problem. What is he trying to do to me? –Are your lights on?
Most of us have had schooling—too much of it. We've developed an instinct that makes us seize upon the first statement that looks like a "problem". Then we "solve" it as fast as we can, for everybody knows that, on exams, speed counts. And so does concentration. –Are your lights on?
In spite of appearances, people seldom know what they want until you give them what they ask for. –Are your lights on?
Not too many people, in the final analysis, really want their problems solved. –Are your lights on?
We are trapped, quite often, because we've worked on a problem so long and so hard that we never really thought we'd solve it—so why worry about whether we want it or not? –Are your lights on?
Though many problems must be solved in haste, beware of someone pushing you to hurry. Late in the resolution process, haste makes mistakes; in the first few minutes, haste makes disasters. –Are your lights on?
We never have enough time to consider whether we want it (the solution), but we always have enough time to regret it. –Are your lights on?
Very early on—really from the very beginning—the problem resolver must strive to see the "water" in which the other participants unconsciously swim—the water which will be transmuted to sand when the "problem" is "solved". –Are your lights on?
To be true to yourself, in this problem-resolving business, you must consider moral questions before you get close to a solution, or even a definition, and thereby begin to lose your sensibility. Such consideration will never waste your time, for problem-resolving can never be a morally neutral activity—no matter how much it fascinates its practitioners. –Are your lights on?
