Timing is important.
The right move at the wrong time is the wrong move.
Footwork controls distance controls time.
Be aware of the point of perfect equilibrium.
Maintaining the perfect middle path between too close and too far.
Avoiding being the first to move letting the opponent choose how to loose.
The one that masters time and distance control the fight.
If he cant reach you however sharp the weapon he cannot cut you.
Wait for him to commit his attack then move in directly with no hesitation.
Once the enemy commits he will struggle to recover.Hesitation and thinking takes time.
The moment you think you are not aware of your enemy.
Make sure your mind is continuously aware and empty of thoughts.
Defeat superior strength by directing force into emptiness.
When a ball floating in water is pushed it yields and rotates.
Borrow his energy with one side and add it to the other.
Attack the opponent's center while preventing him from attacking yours.
Use structure, distance and angle and force him to constantly shift direction.
Let the enemy bleed his strength and attack him when he needs rest.
Always remember your objective attack his lack of awareness and structure.
Be like a two headed snake.
If he attack your left you attack his right.
If he defends his left you attack his right.
Defend and attack must be one.
Once your attack has started you leave him no time to recover or think.
Constant pressure forward with the intent to kill weakens his will.
The shortest path between two points is a straight line. Don't stray off your goals and purpose left and right. Up and down. Go straight. Don't be afraid. Don't waste time. Deal with any problem at its root don't wait for it to grow complex.
Why wait for something easy become difficult?
The best way to win is winning without force.
Intercept the enemies intent before he acts.
Minimum movement and energy is the wing chun zeal.
Thus the master moves without movement and acts without effort.
So simple is wing chun that it cannot be perceived by the common eye.
If the mind is not still it cannot perceive the nearly invisible art of wing chun.
Emotion attacks before the action.
When the enemy is proud and angry he cannot wait to attack.
Holding a chunk of glowing coal you wants to get rid of it fast.
Patience will be the weapon to make him blindly make the first move.
Craving and greed will make you stupid and careless.
Have the enemy see gain and he will headlessly reach for it.
Destroy the enemy by his own sword.
To master others emotions make sure you master your own first.
A dangerous enemy controls his anger and greed.
A person with no anger or greed would never be your enemy.
If you understand that you do not own your emotions they will not control you.
The clue is to accept emotions as they are without reacting to them.
The path to stupidity is lack of acceptance of yourself.
There is no time for being kind in a fight for life and death.
Being kind to the enemy is being cruel to one self.
Let your fear be a guide not your enemy.
Fear makes you avoid what is unavoidable. Don't try to run around it.
Inside fear is the gateway to true confidence and courage.
When the door is open enter. Why hesitate when the time is right?
Don't be intimidated by appearances or sounds.
What you can see and hear you can always defuse or avoid.
The true danger is hidden from view and is hard to prevent..
True prevention lies within one own heart.
Being aware without becoming slave of ones fear.
Don't look away and pretend its not there Take your guts seriously
If you feel it the enemy does as well.If he feels it you feel it as well.
Act when you feel he wants to hit.
Take away his will to fight before he knew he had it.
Don't go to a gun-shop to get your hair fixed.
If you practice wing chun as a hobby be real and forget about combat.
If you practice for the wrong reason you will never discover the true art.
A doctor studies medicine to prevent death a martial artist studies to master death.
Why do all martial arts have sharp weapons if they weren't intended to injure or kill?
If you want to get in shape go to the local fitness-gym.
If you want new friends to cure loneliness help lonely people.
Know what you want and you will find a way.
Martial arts is the science of mastering what you cannot escape.
The practice is about stopping to run away from fear.
If you do not have this purpose you should not waste your time.
Train hard, fight easy.
There exists no shortcuts nor magic teachings.
You alone define the ceiling for your mastery.
To attain a high standard train for the most difficult.
If you are lazy and lack discipline you will never be ready for reality.
Life is uncertain, death is guaranteed.
When death is at your doorstep you will fall back on the fruits of your practice.
Running for empty pleasures and experiences will not protect you from anything.
True protection starts by stopping the chase for false security.
No family, no friends, no God have the power to safe you on your deathbed.
Make sure you follow your heart and don't live to please others in fear of rejection.
Learning is not a skill, it's an attitude.
Humble and open yet demanding the absolute truth.
Accept your self as you are. Your weaknesses and strengths.
Don't exchange doubt with critical investigation.
Doubt kills the spirit and your confidence. Throw out the garbage.
Follow your heart you cannot learn without true love for the art.
Don't just disapprove and test but also trust and follow.
Being playful like a child discovering a new universe of possibilities.
Repetition of technique is not enough you must understand by own experience.
Experience comes by engaging your whole being into to the discovery.
You receive what you give. Make sure you give a lot of love.
Don't expect results you are ready when you are ready. Growth takes time.
True mastery arrives when you stop thinking and trying to control.
Thinking comes from fear of the unknown.
You cannot know the unknown just by thinking about it. You must experience it first hand.
If you use too much force and control you'll get tired, restless and angry.
True mastery is effortless yet extremely powerful.
You cannot force the unenforceable. It evolves by itself, with or without you.
Mastery arrives when you love the process not just the result.
No one wants to be loved for what he will become.
Don't expect your teacher to do the job for you.
The teacher shows you the door but you must walk through it your self.
Separate love for the teacher and love for the art.
A teacher may have great charisma and be attractive but may lead you into stupidity.
A teacher may not be a master or charismatic but can still be a guide one to mastery.
Don't do as he does just investigate what he says.
Make the teachings your own. Don't be a carbon copy or a marionette.
Following the teacher blindly makes you stupid and irresponsible.
He is not your father figure or perfect example to live a life.
A human being is always full of mistakes and error. Know his weaknesses and strengths.
A too hard teacher shows you how to be soft and loving.
A too soft teacher shows you discipline and self awareness.
Finding a great teacher must start with trusting your own heart as your true teacher.
When the student is ready the teacher arrives.
